(soft upbeat music)
For this exercise, I want you
to go into the exercises folder,
and you'll see the DOM folder.
I've already created it for you.
You'll see there's an index.html.
You can open that up in your browser.
And then we have a the DOM.js,
which should be empty as well.
So the first thing we wanna do is talk about where
to load our JavaScript if we are selecting elements.
So we're just gonna jump two minutes ahead and try
to select this paragraph that's on the page.
So I'm just gonna write it and then I'll explain it
in just a sec, so I say const the paragraph
is equal to the document.querySelector
and we wanna grab the first paragraph on the page.
And if we console log the paragraph,
now if I wanna load this JavaScript into my index.html
or into my application, you might think,
okay, well, go into the head and we wanna give ourselves
a script source and that will link to the DOM.js.
Now, when this page runs, it's gonna run the JavaScript
for us and will open up our dev tools here.
And you'll see that we have null.
So we're trying to select something on the page
and console log it and it's showing us null.
If I were to run this little ditty right here,
oh, we can't use I can't use the same variable name.
Let me just run the code and see if it returns an element.
It does return an element.
So like, why does it work if we paste it into here,
but how come it doesn't work if we load it
into via our JavaScript?
And that is because this JavaScript is being loaded
before our html is created and what's gonna happen
is this JavaScript is downloaded
and run before it even created the actual elements
that are on the page.
Now, there's different ways to get around that.
There's async and defer attributes, but as we have said
in the past, it's better just to put the script tag
right before the closing body tag.
Now what that will do is it will ensure
that all of your html is first downloaded in parse
to the page before it even goes ahead
and downloads and runs the JavaScript.
So now if we just refresh the same code, you'll see
that it's immediately showing up.
So that's probably the biggest email I get all the time
from all my other JavaScript courses
where people have taken some other JavaScript course
or they just assume that since your css can go up here,
can't your JavaScript go up there as well?
And that returns null.
So there are ways around it.
What you can do is you can actually wrap all of your code
in maybe we make a function called init
and I'll put that on up here and then
we can add an event listener.
Again, this is jumping a bit ahead of ourselves,
but we can say document.add event listener
and we can listen for the DOM content loaded event
and then run the init function when that happens.
And then when I refresh here, you'll see
that even though I'm running my script here,
we are delaying the code that actually runs
until all of the DOM content has been loaded to the page.
So you'll see that maybe in some,
it doesn't even hurt, like it's not gonna hurt
to put it near the closing body tag.
See, it works just fine.
It's gonna fire for you as soon as it possibly can.
But we don't necessarily need that
if we are just running our code at the closing body tag.
So that's exactly what we will be doing
throughout this course.
I am, I've been happy with that in all of my own projects.
So before you actually go ahead and work with the items
on the page, you need to go get them.
And that's what we call selecting them.
You need to be able to access the specific element
on the page, whether that's an H2 tag
or a div or a button or an image, and then once we have it,
we can go ahead and do things like listening for clicks,
we can change the content, we can add content to it,
we can remove it from the page,
we can do anything we want with it.
Now, there's sort of two ways to work with
selecting elements, or two main ways,
and these are the only two that I use,
and that's query selector and query selector all.
And generally, you're using them on the document dot,
although that's not always the case.
I'll show you why in just a second.
So we've done this one right here.
We've selected something with that p.
In here, query selector and query selector all
will take one argument and that is the CSS selector.
This is almost exactly the same selector.
So, pretty much everything you know and love from CSS
will be moved over to JavaScript selector.
So how would I select anything on the page?
Well it depends on what you're looking for,
but you just pass it to your query selector.
So I open up my dev tools here.
You'll see that I grab a paragraph tag
and I console log at you see that we have the item there.
Now query selector all will give you a multiple elements,
where query selector will only ever
give you the first matching element.
So if I make another one, called divs,
and let's console log the divs,
you'll see that we get this thing here.
This is called a node list.
And we're gonna be learning about arrays.
It looks a lot like an array, and you'll probably
even hear me slip up through this course
and say it's an array of elements.
Although this is kinda like an interview question
that you might hear, is a node list is not an array.
It is a list of things, but there are a couple differences.
And we'll go through those throughout this course
and show what the differences are.
The short and skinny of it is it doesn't have
all the method, like map, filter, reduce built into it.
So we've got this node list here.
It brings us back three items
and if we open that up, and hover over top of it,
you'll see that it is grabbing everything that matches
the selector, so div with the class of items,
and then these other divs.
So you can obviously get a little bit more specific
with that, so you can say like give me anything
with the class of item and then you get two things.
You could say give me a div with a class of item
and that will give you the exact same thing.
But I don't know, maybe if you had an article
with a class of item in there, h2 Im an article,
now when we refresh, you still see two things.
I take that div off, right?
I'm not gonna re-teach you how to use css selectors.
You probably know about how to use all of those things.
You can do parent child selectors.
So let's say I wanted to grab images
that were only inside of an item.
So here we can say item space img.
And we'll change that to image, images.
And we'll rename this variable here.
You'll see we got a node list again.
It's just one actual item.
Now this is a little bit different.
Obviously we only have one image here,
but let me duplicate this.
And put it into another div here.
So each item has an image in it.
And when you refresh, you see there's two.
Nice looking flowers.
Nice looking sky.
Great moss.
Seen it all.
This is a great photo place holder.
So now if you take a look at it,
you'll see that I only have, or I have both items
that are on the page.
Now this is a little bit different because
if you wanted to select maybe just the first item
and then find the image inside
of that, you have two options.
First, you could just says query selector
and that is going to return the first match.
So it never will find the second one.
Or what you can do is maybe your
second one has a class of item two.
You could first grab the item two.
So const item two is equal to use this one,
document query selector, we'll say dot item two.
And let's see what we got in item two.
So there's our item two.
And then if you wanna look inside
of an element that you already have,
and you wanna search inside for that one,
you can use query selector on any other element.
So then I could say const item to image
is equal to item two dot query selector
and then we can look for an image inside of that.
Beautiful.
So if you ever need to narrow down your focus,
as to where you are searching, you can obviously do that
in your selector, but if it ever is the,
like sometimes I just have a variable that references
like a rapper or something.
Okay, I say this is the rapper or this is the item
that I'm currently working with, I need
to search inside that thing for another selector.
And if that's the case, you just basically take
that element that you have and you can
run dot query selector and dot query selector all
off of that item and only search
and sort of limit the scope
of your searching from inside of that thing.
So document.querySelector will search the entire page,
the entire document.
And then query selector as a method of another element
will only search inside of that element.
So query selector and query selector all
they get all the work done for me,
however there are additional ways to select elements
on the page and these are all dated back
before we had query selector
and before we had query selector all.
So it used to be much harder to do this,
selecting elements on the page.
And what we used is document dot
and you can see them all here, document.getElement.
And you can see them, get element by ID,
get elements by class name, get elements by name,
get elements by tag name, and elements by tag name NS.
I think that last one is for xml only.
Let's look it up.
What is that NS for?
Name space?
Returns a live html collection of elements
that are given the tag name belonging to the name space.
Let's see an example.
Oh yeah, see?
This is, this is older stuff.
I've never used that one.
You probably don't wanna use that one either.
But if you do have something with an ID on it,
like let's say this h2 has an id of wes,
then we can say document.getElementById,
and you pass your ID that you want, wes.
You notice how I didn't put the pound on there.
That's a pretty common mistake people do
is if you're using anything that's not query selector,
you don't have to pass dot or pound or something like that.
And then that will return to you the actual element
that is in there, same with get elements by class name.
Honestly, you just need to know that they're there,
because you might run into them at one point in your career,
but not worth learning.
Not worth using, because query selector
and query selector all are much more flexible
and I get all my work done with them.